title: 'HUMAN RESOURCES - DIRECTOR'
location: 'Miami, FL.'
compensation_type: 'Hourly + Bonus'
office: 'OPF - Miami'
company: OPF
department: 'Human Resources'
short_description: 'We are currently looking for successful, energetic and goal oriented Human Resources professionals to join our growing team. The Human Resources Director will make a difference at One Park Financial by helping to fully leverage the skills and talents of all our people. '
job_description: |
  One Park Financial is a fast-growing company located in Coconut Grove, Florida and voted as South Florida “Best Places to Work 2017 & 2018” recipient as selected by the Sun Sentinel.
  
  - Searching for a place to make your mark?
  - Looking to make things happen?
  - Pursuing a fast-paced environment?
  - Expecting a culture where team work is valued?
  
  If you answered “yes” your job search is over.  One Park Financial (“OPF”) is the place for you!
  
  One Park Financial LLC has been a leading provider of Business Financing and Factoring Loans. We provide business loans, credit lines and cash advances to small and mid-size businesses, providing capital to healthy but under-served businesses without the time, documentation and availability issues associated with an SBA or conventional bank loan.  OPF is a fast-growing company located in Coconut Grove, Florida.  Being a technology enabled small business funder, OPF offers a wide variety of flexible financing and funding options to businesses throughout the United States.
  
  We are currently looking for successful, energetic and goal oriented Human Resources professionals to join our growing team. The Human Resources Director will make a difference at One Park Financial by helping to fully leverage the skills and talents of all our people. You’ll help our local offices in driving the One Park Financial people strategy, benefits administration, employee retention, recruitment, job placement, creating a unique people experience for everyone, and supporting our wide values by working with the core competencies that measure and drive individual and Firm wide success in the marketplace in charge of delivering best in class recruiting experience to candidates throughout the recruiting life cycle. 
  
  **Essential Duties & Responsibilities**
  
  The Human Resources Director Develops organization strategies by identifying and researching human resources issues; contributing information, analysis, and recommendations to organization strategic thinking and direction; establishing human resources objectives in line with organizational objectives.
  
  Implements human resources strategies by establishing department accountabilities, including talent acquisition, staffing, employment processing, compensation, health and welfare benefits, training and development, records management, safety and health, succession planning, employee relations and retention, AA/EEO compliance, and labor relations.
  
  Manages human resources operations by recruiting, selecting, orienting, training, coaching, counseling, and disciplining staff; planning, monitoring, appraising, and reviewing staff job contributions; maintaining compensation; determining production, productivity, quality, and customer-service strategies; designing systems; accumulating resources; resolving problems; implementing change.
  
  Develops human resources operations financial strategies by estimating, forecasting, and anticipating requirements, trends, and variances; aligning monetary resources; developing action plans; measuring and analyzing results; initiating corrective actions; minimizing the impact of variances.
  
  Accomplishes special project results by identifying and clarifying issues and priorities; communicating and coordinating requirements; expediting fulfillment; evaluating milestone accomplishments; evaluating optional courses of action; changing assumptions and direction.
  
  Supports management by providing human resources advice, counsel, and decisions; analyzing information and applications.
  
  Guides management and employee actions by researching, developing, writing, and updating policies, procedures, methods, and guidelines; communicating and enforcing organization values.
  Complies with federal, state, and local legal requirements by studying existing and new legislation; anticipating legislation; enforcing adherence to requirements; advising management on needed actions.
   
  Updates job knowledge by participating in conferences and educational opportunities; reading professional publications; maintaining personal networks; participating in professional organizations. Enhances department and organization reputation by accepting ownership for accomplishing new and different requests; exploring opportunities to add value to job accomplishments.
  
  
  **Qualifications**
  - At least 8+ years’ experience as HR manager is required. This should be of a generalist nature, its stand-alone responsibility for HR strategy and policy, recruitment, compensation benefits package, training and development, performance management and employee relations.
  - Preferred bilingual English and Spanish.
  - Substantial experience in HR management within multinational company is highly desirable.
  - Experience to set up new organization in all aspect of Human resource is highly preferential.
  - Point will be added for PHR / SPHR certification
  - Applicant must be able to demonstrate an ability to manage a significant workload in addition to will- developed interpersonal, leadership, communication and IT skills.
  - Competence to build and effectively manage interpersonal relationships at all levels of the company
  - In-depth knowledge of labor law and HR best practices
  - People oriented, and results driven
  - Demonstrable experience with human resources metrics
  - Knowledge of HR systems and databases
  - Ability to architect strategy along with leadership skills
  - Excellent active listening, negotiation and presentation skills
  - BS/MS degree in Human Resources, Business, or Organization Development
starting_date: '2018-11-03'
posting_date: '2018-11-03'
status: Open
id: 0246a366-b916-4ab2-a914-2734f5d5db25
