title: 'COLLECTIONS AGENT'
status: Open
compensation_type: 'Hourly + Bonus'
company: OPF
office: 'OPF - Miami'
short_description: 'One Park Financial (OPF) is a fast-growing company located in Coconut Grove, Florida.  Being a financial services firm, OPF offers a wide variety of flexible financing and funding options to small and medium sized businesses throughout the United States. OPF has an immediate need for a Collections Agent to support our collections operations'
description: |
  One Park Financial (OPF) is a fast-growing company located in Coconut Grove, Florida.  Being a financial services firm, OPF offers a wide variety of flexible financing and funding options to small and medium sized businesses throughout the United States. OPF has an immediate need for a Collections Agent to support our collections operations
  
  This full-time entry level position will provide support to the collection process.  As part of the responsibilities the ideal candidate should have good communication and negotiation skills, patience and understanding, ability to be persuasive, persistent, and firm. Candidate should be able to contribute as a team member in a fast-paced environment. The successful candidate should be able to thrive in an environment where they are held accountable for their productivity.
  
  **Essential Duties & Responsibilities**
  - Contact delinquent clients to bring accounts to current.
  - Follow up on already established payment agreements with clients.
  - Corresponding via phone and email with clients in both Spanish and English.
  - Contacting a minimum of 60 clients per day.
  
  **Minimum Qualifications**
  - Fluently bilingual in English and Spanish
  - 1+ year work experience in an office environment
  - Effective verbal and written communication skills
  - Basic computer skills
  
  **Desired Skills and Experience**
  - Exhibit positive team work attitude
  - Self-starter with high energy
  - Enjoys working in a fast-paced environment
  
  OPF is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE) and takes great pride in building a diverse work environment. Qualified applicants are considered for employment without regard to age, race, religion, gender, national origin, sexual orientation, disability or veteran status. Please submit your resume and cover letter to careers@oneparkfinancial.com
  
location: 'Miami, FL.'
starting_date: '2018-11-03 00:00'
posting_date: '2018-11-03'
description_short: 'Description goes here.'
assigned_to: 'JULIAN BEAUJARDIN'
id: cefa2f5f-b28a-47fb-9cd6-b16675ebdb4d
