title: 'LOAN PROCESSOR'
status: Open
compensation_type: 'Hourly + Bonus'
company: OPF
office: 'OPF - Miami'
short_description: 'We are looking to hire high performing team members that will play an integral part in our expansion of the company.  We understand one thing…it all comes down to hiring the right people!'
description: |
  OPF is a fast-growing company located in Coconut Grove, Florida and a South Florida “Best Places to Work" recipient as selected by the Sun Sentinel.
  
  - Searching for a place to make your mark?
  - Looking to make things happen?
  - Pursuing a fast-paced environment?
  - Expecting a culture where team work is valued?
  
  If you answered “yes” to any of the questions above, your job search is over.  One Park Financial (“OPF”) is the place for you!
  
  OPF is a fast growing company located in Coconut Grove, Florida.  Being a technology enabled small business funder, OPF offers a wide variety of flexible financing and funding options to businesses throughout the United States.
  
  We are looking to hire high performing team members that will play an integral part in our expansion of the company.  We understand one thing…it all comes down to hiring the right people!
  
  As our Final Underwriter, you will be analyzing applications for business owners who are seeking business capital. 
  
  **Essential Duties and Responsibilities:**
  - Conducting a thorough analysis of the business basic information and revenue.
  - Providing a summary of the credit card processing statements and other documentation that will vary depending of the industry.
  - Properly assessing any risks associated with any given deal. 
  - Conducting background check.
  - Clear and LexisNexis knowledge preferable.
  - Pulling credit reports
  - Read and interpret information as it relates to a business
  - Process a minimum of 15 deals daily for an amount of $200k
  - Keep and maintain a maximum rate of 5% of losses on deals analyzed and funded
  - Responsible for the beginning stages of collections on defaulting accounts
  
  **Skills and Abilities:**
  - Candidate must be Bilingual (Fluent in English and Spanish)
  - Needs to be efficient in Microsoft Office
  - Efficient Math Skills
  
  Please submit your cover letter and resume to careers@oneparkfinancial.com.
  
location: 'Miami, FL.'
starting_date: '2018-11-03'
posting_date: '2018-11-03'
id: 4a42793b-4369-44d2-a200-24cfab333f8c
