title: 'FUNDING SPECIALIST'
status: Open
compensation_type: 'Hourly + Bonus'
company: OPF
office: 'OPF - Santo Domingo'
short_description: 'One Park Dominicana (“OPD”) is looking for successful, energetic and goal oriented inside sales professionals to join our growing team.'
description: |
  One Park Dominicana (“OPD”) is looking for successful, energetic and goal oriented inside sales professionals to join our growing team. OPD supports its staff by marketing aggressively to our target demographic to drive inbound calls. Company branded marketing is constantly implemented to provide greater access to inbound, qualified and interested leads. You will be building lasting relationships with small business owners through fielding inbound calls, outbound follow up, text, and email. The ability to initiate and cultivate relationships, develop instant rapport, ask open-ended questions (and listen to the answers), manage a pipeline and work your book of business are keys to success. If you believe you are among the best, then there is no ceiling on what you can accomplish within our organization. 
  Our Funding Specialist team love working here for the uncapped commission plan and the satisfaction they feel working together with our merchants, using the acquisition of capital to solve their businesses most urgent problems.
  
  - Responsible for satisfying our merchants in the following areas while meeting individual, department and organization goals
  - Ensure quality control by verifying all merchant applications information and all cash advance conditions are complete. Validate all required underwriting documentation needed to fund the cash advance has been received 
  - Contact merchants and receive phone calls from merchants when necessary with questions regarding their cash advance to insure all requirements are set up correctly and all underwriting conditions have been met
  - Obtain, necessary and accurate information from the merchant to submit the application 
  - Submit cash advance documents to the underwriting team via. 
  - Create urgency to merchants to get their documentation required 
  - Validate all document requested are correct 
  - Complete all pending assignment such as turn down calls when needed 
  - Perform any additional duties assign.
  
  **Qualifications**
  - Preferred working knowledge of Windows OS, Word, Excel; 
  - Native English Proficiency 
  - Must be capable of handling and processing cash advance requests quickly and performing in a fast-paced office environment; 
  - Confidentiality of member information is required; 
  - Must have good written and verbal communications skills. 
  
  **Required Experience**
  - High school graduate or equivalent; and/or 
  - Experience working with merchant cash advance 
  - Preferred working knowledge of loan origination software
  - Sales experience for minimum 1 year and ½ 
  - English 4.5
  - PI high B
location: 'Santo Domingo, Republica Dominicana'
starting_date: '2018-11-03'
posting_date: '2018-11-03'
id: 70e53c1d-1326-4540-848b-42a2fe7ef210
