title: 'NATIONAL ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE'
status: 1
office: 1
location: 'Miami, FL'
short_description: 'One Park Financial (“OPF”) is looking for successful, energetic and goal oriented inside sales professionals to join our growing team. OPF supports its staff by marketing aggressively to our target demographic to drive inbound calls.'
description: |
  One Park Financial (“OPF”) is looking for successful, energetic and goal oriented inside sales professionals to join our growing team. OPF supports its staff by marketing aggressively to our target demographic to drive inbound calls. Company branded marketing is constantly implemented to provide greater access to inbound, qualified and interested leads. You will be building lasting relationships with the book of accounts given, but also marketing your service to get referrals and generate your own leads. The ability to initiate and cultivate relationships, develop instant rapport, ask open-ended questions (and listen to the answers), manage a pipeline and work your book of business are keys to success. If you believe you are among the best, then there is no ceiling on what you can accomplish within our organization.
  Our National Account Executive and love working here for the uncapped commission plan and the satisfaction they feel working together with our merchants, using the acquisition of capital to solve their businesses most urgent problems. If you want to make six figures, look no further!!!
  
  **We Offer**
  - Guaranteed Base with Aggressive Commission Schedule with no cap
  - Monthly and Weekly sales competitions and incentives
  - Spiffs and bonuses weekly
  - Monthly sales competitions and incentives
  - Group Team Building events
  - Fun work environment
  - Free private medical insurance 
  
  **Desired Education and Experience**
  - Sales Experience: 5 - 7+ years proven sales record
  - Bachelor’s Degree in Business, Sales, Marketing or any related field
  - Fully Bi-lingual English/Spanish Required
  - Effective Communication Skills (English and Spanish)
  - Experience in banking, loans and cash advance is a plus
  - Salesforce experience a plus
  - Business to business sales experience a plus
  
  **Required Skills and Abilities**
  - Candidates must be fully bilingual (Spanish and English)
  - Ability to Build Rapport with a Merchant
  - Persuasive
  - A track record of success as a closer and in achieving or beating goals and quotas. Be prepared to discuss.
  - Desire to work in and be a part of an organization that thrives on hard work and success all while having a great time.
  - Ability to build relationships, convey value of offering, obtain commitments and convert.
  - Skill and desire to learn our financial products.
  - Proficient with MS Office/Outlook.
  - Type 40+ words a minute with minimal errors.
  
  OPF is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE) and takes great pride in building a diverse work environment. Qualified applicants are considered for employment without regard to age, race, religion, gender, national origin, sexual orientation, disability or veteran status.
compensation_type: 'Hourly + Bonus'
starting_date: '2018-11-03'
posting_date: '2018-11-03'
id: ace876eb-8b00-46f3-8396-65ec1d9a3e85
