---
title: '3 Keys for Building Sustainable Online Success'
meta_title: 'How To Build A Sustainable Online Presence'
meta_description: 'You have successfully started a small business. After months of planning and strategizing, you have finally overcome your first major hurdle – getting your brainchild up and running.'
canonical: 'https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/blog/five-reasons-why-small-businesses-need-websites'
image: /assets/img/406755_opf-article-images-batch3-square_17-3-keys-for-building-sustainable-online-success.png
en_url: blog/3-keys-building-sustainable-online-success
id: b03ad7e3-cebb-4313-b783-f19121fe0a2e
---
You have successfully started a small business. After months of planning and strategizing, you have finally overcome your first major hurdle – getting your brainchild up and running.

Now is not the time to let off the gas - you are in a crucial stage. All that you have achieved can disappear without a sustained and executed [plan to grow](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/blog/how-to-create-a-content-marketing-strategy-for-your-business) the business. Here are 3 keys to achieving long-term online business success. These should remain a part of your strategy if you want to dominate your industry.

<strong>#1. Think Outside the Box</strong>
To grow your business, you should first create a list of all viable marketing strategies. Revisit and tweak these strategies based on the results you see from each one. Safe, conservative strategies are important, it’s critical to also execute new, higher risk, cutting edge techniques to stay ahead of competitors.

If you plan to experiment, follow a timeline. This will help you cut your losses when something is failing. However, remember that every plan you make will take time to positively affect ROI and that real success stories usually have a long narrative.

You can even seek help from experts to help you retain that competitive edge and develop new strategies. If you are in need of a marketing budget to jump start your small business this way, try talking to the small business loan experts at One Park Financial to [see what your options are.](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/faq)

<strong>#2. Keep Your Employees Happy</strong>
Most businesses rely on the help of passionate employees. Everyone knows, “the customer is always right,” but many business owners forget to keep their employees happy as well. The best employee is one who is excited to show up to work and who sees a long term future with the company. Incentives and bonuses are wonderful ways to show your workers how important they are to you. You can take it a step further by helping them to achieve a positive work-life balance, by being involved in their lives outside of the work place.

<strong>#3. Use New Technology</strong>
Technology plays an important role in sustaining [business success](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/pre-qualification). There are numerous tools and platforms to make use of in every facet of your business – from processing order and customer relationship management, to social media marketing and more. Always be on the lookout for new software and hardware programs that become available to help you promote your brand, intensify your strategies and expedite your business procedures.

Remember to stay focused and don't be afraid to be take chances in this massive online world of entrepreneurs. Using these 3 strategies will help you to sustain the success of your online business into the distant future.