---
title: 'Why You Should Be Securing Capital for the Upcoming Holiday Season'
meta_title: 'Why You Should Be Securing Capital for Holiday Season 2020'
meta_description: 'Is your business able to operate full steam during the holiday season? Learn why you should secure extra business capital for the bussiest time of the year. Read and prepare for holiday season 2020.'
image: /assets/img/406755_opf-article-images-batch2_8-why-you-should-be-securing-capital-for-the-holiday-season.png
id: eae26722-ff29-4404-bbb4-df1327cda1f1
---
With the upcoming holiday season, [having enough capital](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/blog/dont-wait-need-cash-apply-capital) for your business should be at the top of your list.

There are several questions involving capital that every business owner should consider during this time: Is your business able to afford extra inventory? Do you have enough employees for the busier days? Do you have a sufficient amount of funds for holiday marketing promotions?

The holiday season is a time when business owners should consider securing a capital advance to fully prepare for the holiday rush. This is the perfect time to call your financial provider, as companies such as ourselves, [One Park Financial](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/), can provide you with enough additional funding to get you through the busy season.

Take a retail business for example: Having enough capital will allow you to stock up on your best-selling items for holiday shopping for days like Black Friday and Cyber Monday. Using your past sales reports will help determine what to expect for the current year. Supplying extra inventory prior to the holiday season is the best business decision to make as your sales are likely to increase. Not having enough inventory could result in customers turning toward your competitors instead.

Because customers are more likely to return to your business if they can avoid long lines, having a sufficient number of working employees during the holidays can lead to a thriving season for your business. Unhappy customers due to long wait times can result in a negative word of mouth. Enough capital will allow you to hire seasonal employees for faster services.

Big brands generate a substantial amount of sales and clientele due to their remarkable holiday marketing promotions. If you are a small business, investing some extra cash flow to compete with some of these brands can attract more customers.  As a small business owner, you should partake in a holiday marketing promotion that will allow you to stand out from the crowd.

With enough working capital, the holiday season could potentially be the best time for your brand to be a [success](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/pre-qualification) because of the heavy demand of products and services.