---
title: 'One Park Financial Named Top Workplace 2017 by Sun Sentinel'
id: 2b9f1456-3fc9-42d6-96dd-15c07e3991d4
---
One Park Financial has been awarded a 2017 <a href="http://www.topworkplaces.com/frontend.php/regional-lists">Top Workplaces</a> honor by The Sun Sentinel. The Top Workplaces lists are based solely on the results of an employee feedback survey administered by WorkplaceDynamics, LLC. Several aspects of workplace culture were measured, including Alignment, Execution, and Connection, just to name a few.

One Park Financial, a leading financial tech firm changing the way business owners receive funding, is officially one of the top places to work in South Florida. “We’re honored our team members, or Grovies, awarded us the Top Places to Work.   Receiving this award is a huge honor and we know that we cannot achieve our continued success without all of us working towards the same goals in an exciting, creative, and driven workplace.” says John M. Lie-Nielsen, CEO of One Park Financial. One Park prides itself on their welcoming and team oriented culture which is fueled by their Core Values. Each employee is expected to live by the four values: Results, Client’s Success, Taking Risks and Fun. These values allow each employee to constantly strive for success while working in a healthy environment.

“The Top Workplaces award is not a popularity contest. And oftentimes, people assume it’s all about fancy perks and benefits.” says Doug Claffey, CEO of WorkplaceDynamics. “But to be a Top Workplace, organizations must meet our strict standards for organizational health. And who better to ask about work life than the people who live the culture every day—the employees. Time and time again, our research has proven that what’s most important to them is a strong belief in where the organization is headed, how it’s going to get there, and the feeling that everyone is in it together. Claffey adds, “Without this sense of connection, an organization doesn’t have a shot at being named a Top Workplace.”

Aside from their core values, One Park Financial fuels it’s culture with monthly potlucks, volunteering opportunities with the United Way and office competitions. They aim to encourage team building and want to reward their employees for all the hard work they put into the Company. “It is great to earn this recognition for our team members who work so hard to make One Park a great place to work,” says President of One Park Financial, Ben McCrery.