---
title: 'What Kind of Small Business Loan Can I Get With a 600 Credit Score?'
meta_title: 'What Kind of Small Business Loan Can I Get With a 600 Credit Score?'
meta_description: 'A credit score of 600 may seem like a nice, round, impressive number - but sadly it''s unlikely to impress traditional lenders. But owners of small businesses do have funding options even without a perfect credit history.'
canonical: what-kind-of-small-business-loan-can-i-get-with-a-600-credit-score
image: /assets/img/what-kind-of-small-business-loan-can-i-get-with-a-600-credit-score.jpg
id: 220faf14-9e69-426c-a0ac-b94de5c51dcd
---
If you own a smaller business, a bank will typically look at your personal credit score when deciding whether to approve a business loan. If your personal credit is overextended, or you don&rsquo;t have a very high score your loan application will likely not be approved. And while a credit score of 600 may seem like a nice, round, impressive number - sadly it's unlikely to impress tradtional lenders.</p>

<p><strong>What the Numbers Mean</strong></p>
<p>Your credit score is a three-digit number that essentially indicates the level of risk a lender accepts when they loan you money.</p>

<p>Overall, here&rsquo;s how it works:</p>

<ul style="list-style:circle;padding-left:30px;margin-bottom:30px;">
<li><strong>300-629:&nbsp;</strong>300-629: Bad credit &ndash; you will get turned down for business loans by traditional lenders and will likely only be able to access secured credit cards/lines of credit. Note that your score is based, in part, on how much and what type of credit you currently have &ndash; it doesn&rsquo;t always indicate that you didn&rsquo;t pay your creditors. A low score may simply mean you don&rsquo;t have an extensive credit history.</li>
  
<li><strong>630-689:</strong>Fair credit &ndash; this is considered &ldquo;average&rdquo; credit. You may be able to get credit cards, but at high interest rates. You are unlikely to be approved for a traditional loan, unless you have a co-signer and significant collateral &ndash; and even then, you may not be approved.</li>
  
<li><strong>690-719:&nbsp;</strong>Good credit &ndash; You will have a much easier time getting credit cards or lines of credit but may still not qualify for a small business loan from a traditional lender.</li>
  
<li><strong>720 and up:&nbsp;</strong>Excellent credit &ndash; congratulations! 850 is an almost impossible to reach score, but anything from 720 up is outstanding.</li>
</ul>
  
<h2>How to Improve Your Credit Score</h2>
<p>Contrary to what some people would like you to believe, there is <a href="https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/articles/fixing-your-credit">no fast fix</a> for a bad credit score. You need to devote time to repairing your credit issues.</p>
<p>If your score is low because you&rsquo;ve had problems with credit before, you&rsquo;ll need to pay back any outstanding debts. If you&rsquo;ve already done that, and your score is still low, look into ways to start rebuilding your credit worthiness. Many people begin by getting a secured credit card. Ask your bank or credit union if they offer secured credit cards. Make sure they report to the three major credit agencies. </p>
<p>Typically, your limit on the card will be an amount of money from your savings account that the bank holds to ensure you will pay your balance. Use less than 30% of the card&rsquo;s credit limit (or less, but make sure to use the card regularly for small purchases) and pay the balance in full and on time each month. You&rsquo;ll see your score steadily improve, as long as you keep up with all of your other bills too.</p>
<h2>How Can I Get A Small Business Loan with Bad Credit?</h2>
<p>It&rsquo;s unlikely that you will be approved for a small business bank loan with a credit score of 600 or less. Banks usually won&rsquo;t loan to a small business owner unless he or she has at least a 720 score, and even then, it may be difficult to secure a traditional loan unless you have signifigant collateral, a solid business plan and excellent financial projections for your business.</p>
<p>The good news is that you do have options. 
<h2>Alternatives to Traditional Small Business Loans</h2> 
Alternative lenders happily work with businesses whose owners have credit scores in the 500 and up range. And alternative small business funding is typically flexible, with options &ndash; such as merchant cash advances &ndash; specifically designed to meet the needs of smaller businesses.</p>
<p>[Alternative lending](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/) is an increasingly attractive option for many owners of small to mid-sized businesses. And a quick Google search will show you that there are plenty of companies who are offering funding to small businesses. But how do you find a<em> trustworthy </em>alternative funder?</p>
<p>You need an advocate who understands small business funding, like One Park Financial. Instead of trying to push you into accepting a particular funding offer, One Park Financial will find options from its network of 20+ funders that best fit your needs.</p>
<p>Your One Park Financial account manager will walk you through the process, answer all your questions, and work hard to get you the funding you need to succeed. Visit [oneparkfinancial.com](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/) or call 855.218.8819 for more information.</p>