---
title: 'How to build my business credit?'
meta_title: 'How to build my business credit?'
meta_description: 'You might know how personal credit score works, however, you might not be familiar with how business credit rating functions. Learn how to create and maintain a healthy business credit.'
canonical: 'https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/blog/how-to-build-business-credit'
image: /assets/img/build.jpg
es_url: articulos/como-construir-mi-credito-comercial
en_url: blog/how-to-build-business-credit
id: 5b817c7b-f242-4e9c-9810-401584ae8b85
---
If you’ve ever taken out a consumer loan than you probably already know how your personal
finances and credit works. You likely understand where your personal credit score lands month-
to-month and how debilitating a poor credit score can be.

While you may be aware of how your personal credit score works you might not be familiar with
how your business credit rating functions. As a business owner, your business credit rating can
significantly impact your [financial reputation](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/blog/business-owners-overcome-biggest-financial-challenges).

## Why is it important to establish business credit?

Think of the importance of your personal credit score. A high score enables you to get the best
rates and terms for loans, lines of credit and other types of funding. On the other hand, a poor
score will limit the range of lending options available to you and will ensure you pay high
interest rates.

In the same manner, your business credit rating can affect how suppliers and business lenders
conduct business with you. Your business credit rating can reveal a wealth of information about
your business. Do you pay your accounts on time? Have you defaulted on any payments?

[Suppliers and lenders](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/) will use your business credit score to make decisions about the terms and
interest rates they’re willing to extend to you. It’s essential you build a strong business credit
score. It’ll open a range of opportunities for your business and help you to secure financing when
it’s time to scale.

## 8 ways to build your business credit

Building your business credit the right way will set your business on the path to financial
success. Let’s look at 8 ways to build your business credit.

### 1) Establish a business entity

If you’re reading this, there’s a good chance you’ve already formed your own business entity,
but it’s important to understand that your business credit is separate from your personal credit.

Forming a sole proprietorship or general partnership means that legally, the business is still the
same as the owner. As a result, there is no separation of personal credit from business credit.
Forming an LLC or a corporation, however, will create a business that’s legally separated from
the owner(s). Talk to a lawyer or an accountant to determine whether you should form an LLC or
a corporation. Overall, if you’re not planning to issue stock, an LLC may be your best bet, but it
is best to get professional advice regarding tax issues and reporting requirements that will affect
your business.

### 2) Obtain a federal tax identification number (EIN)

Your EIN essentially acts as a social security number for your business. An EIN is required
when you open a bank account under the name of your corporation or LLC, and it’s also required
when you’re filing federal taxes. To abide by the requirements of the IRS, larger businesses often
require an EIN from their vendors when conducting business. You can easily apply for an EIN
on the IRS’s website.

### 3) Open a business bank account

Opening a business checking account under the name of your corporation or LLC is an essential
step in building your business credit. Once the account has been opened, you should start
handling all of the financial transactions of your business through that account. If you happen to
use a business credit card to cover all of the expenses of your business, ensure that you pay the
bill off with the bank account. You typically need a state business license and an EIN (or social
security number for a sole proprietorship) to open a business bank account, plus a government-
issued photo ID.

### 4) Establish a phone number for your business

It doesn’t matter what type of phone service you use (landline, VoIP, cellphone) it’s important
you have a separate number for your business registered under your legal business name. This is
the number you will use to list your business in directories to make it easier for your business to
be found. Your service provider will report payments to credit agencies, helping to build your
credit history.

### 5) Open a business credit file

An essential step in building business credit that many people often miss is opening a business
credit file with TransUnion, Experian, and Equifax. Your credit file is what suppliers, vendors,
and lenders will look at to gauge your financial reputation. The best way to get started is to apply
for Business DUNS Number with Dun &amp; Bradstreet, so you can establish a Paydex business credit

score. Paydex is commonly used by suppliers and creditors, and you’ll also need a Paydex score to
apply for a government contract, grant, or SBA loan. Choose the free option on the DUNS site.

### 6) Use one or more credit cards for your business

We can’t stress enough how important it is you separate your personal credit from your business
credit. Therefore, you should open one or more credit cards that aren’t linked to you or your
business partner(s) personal accounts.

**Pay your bills on time every time**

You already know this, but it bears repeating: if you want to build good business credit, you need
to pay your bills on time, every time. Late payments will have just as much of a negative impact
on your business credit as it would on your personal credit.

### 7) Open a line of credit with your suppliers and vendors

Find at least five vendors and/or suppliers to work with who are willing offer you a line of credit
for purchases. As long as you pay your bills on time, this will create a history of positive
financial transactions that future vendors/suppliers will reference when determining payment
terms to offer your business. Look for vendors who report to credit bureaus.

## Building your business credit, the right way

Building your credit score brings significant benefits to your business. It’ll help ensure you
receive the best payment terms when working with new suppliers and vendors, you’ll receive the
best rates from lenders, and you’ll establish a good reputation for your business.

But business credit takes time to build. In the meantime, you’ll need capital to grow and expand
your business. We can help. One Park Financial partners with an extensive network of funders
who provide merchant cash advances to owners of small and medium-sized businesses.

Apply today to [get the funding you need](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/pre-qualification) to keep your business on the move.