---
title: '10 of the Biggest Social Media Mistakes'
meta_title: '10 Social Media Mistakes You Should Avoid'
meta_description: 'Are you using social media correctly? Check out these 10 common mistakes you might be making – and should stop doing today!'
image: /assets/img/device-digital-ecommerce-35550-min.jpg
id: ce76e9b7-6ae9-41de-ad5f-4d265bcd6872
---
Social media is different than traditional [advertising](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/blog/marketing-mistakes-to-avoid), and must be managed accordingly. Even a minor mistake can have lasting damage to your brand. Is your business making mistakes on social media? Here are the ten most common social media mistakes plus simple solutions for each:

### 10. Posting the Same Contact Across All Platforms

No two social media platforms are exactly the same. Tailor your posts accordingly in length and tone. For example, Twitter is a great place for short, comedic messages while LinkedIn is ideal for longer, more professional posts. 

Don’t copy and paste messages across all platforms. Instead, you’ll need to create custom messages for each one. 

### 9. Creating Accounts for Every Platform  

You don’t need a profile on every social media platform in existence. Limit your company’s presence to just one or two.  

Every company should have a Facebook page. But you’ll need to do a bit of market research to discover what other platforms you should be on, too. For example, if you sell a product which photographs well, consider creating an Instagram account. If you frequently need to convey short bursts of information to customers, Twitter is often a good choice.  

Developing a solid presence on just a few sites is the best way to reach a dedicated audience interested in your products or services. 

### 8. Not Following Other Accounts

Social media requires a high degree of interactivity compared to traditional advertising. Your social media pages can’t exist in a vacuum. Instead, you’ll need to follow other accounts. 

Follow accounts connected to your industry such as suppliers, industry influencers and trade publications. Follow at least 30 accounts to start, and gradually add more. Aside from following others, you’ll also want to comment, like and re-share. Creating a sense of community helps establish trust and legitimacy in the eyes of your potential customers.  

### 7. Mixing Your Personal and Business Accounts

Always create pages dedicated solely to your business. Keep your personal page separate from your business page. While this isn’t usually a problem for large businesses, many smaller businesses with a single owner use one page for both business and personal use.   

A shared personal/business page looks unprofessional. Potential customers will be confused as to whether they’ve landed on the official page or not, while your Facebook friends almost certainly don’t want to see lots of marketing for your business. 

### 6. Slow Response Times

Customers increasingly turn to social media when they have a problem with a product or service. You’ll need to keep an eye on your social media platforms so you can address complaints quickly. 

Generally, customers expect a response within at least four hours after posting. You’ll want to respond within that timeframe as often as possible.

You don’t actually have to solve the customer’s problem within four hours. Simply acknowledge the problem, express sympathy and direct the person to send a private message so your support team can handle the issue. 

Potential customers don’t need the details of how the situation was resolved. They just want to see that you respond quickly and seriously to complaints posted on your social media pages.  

### 5. Annoying Post Frequency

Proper posting frequency is a delicate balance determined by a few factors. If you post too infrequently, customers can forget about you. If you post too often, even your biggest fans can be annoyed. Different platforms require different posting schedules:

•	Facebook – Post no more than twice a day

•	Twitter – Post three to five times a day

•	Instagram – Post once a day

### 4. Lack of Social Media Discounts

People follow a business or brand on social media because they want deals. Offer your followers and fans coupons, discounts and special deals. 

Of course, offering too many discounts can affect your bottom line. Limit yourself to just one or two offers each month. Revealing discounts on a fairly random schedule helps encourage your followers to pay close attention to your posts. 

### 3. Selling Too Aggressively

Direct promotion should be roughly 20% of what you post. The hard sell approach rarely works on social media. People want to be entertained, not pressured into purchases. 

Use social media to create a connection with your followers. Post news about your industry, show behind-the-scenes footage of your company and other create engaging content which doesn’t directly sell your products.

### 2. Lack of Patience

Businesses often place too much emphasis on instant success. But creating a viral hit is like capturing lightning in a bottle. Instead, you want to focus on the long-term approach by creating consistent, high-quality content over an extended period of time. 

Your social media pages will likely take at least three to six months to gather even a relatively modest following. Stay patient. Followers will show up eventually if you continue posting quality content. 

### 1. Lack of Funding

Creating social media content does require some costs. For the best results, hire digital artists, copywriters and other creatives to run your social media pages. Professional social media experts help kickstart your pages so they grow quickly.    

Of course, the last thing your business needs is another expense. But many business owners find that a merchant cash advance is an easy and effective way to add $5,000 to $750,000 to your [working capital](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/how-it-works), even if you have bad credit. Application requires just three months of bank statements and the [money can be in your account within just a few days](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/pre-qualification). 

Your business needs social media pages to connect with both new and existing customers. However, there’s a right and wrong way to run your pages. Avoiding these 10 common social media mistakes will help you connect with customers and boost the visibility of your business online.