---
title: 'How To Create a Content Marketing Strategy For Your Business'
meta_title: 'How To Create a Content Marketing Strategy For Your Business'
meta_description: 'Differentiate yourself from your competitors with a great content marketing strategy for your business. Learn how an effective content marketing strategy will help grow your business.'
canonical: 'https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/blog/how-to-create-a-content-marketing-strategy-for-your-business'
image: /assets/img/strategy.jpg
es_url: articulos/como-crear-estrategia-de-mercadotecnia-de-contenido-para-su-empresa
en_url: blog/how-to-create-a-content-marketing-strategy-for-your-business
id: 6f2a9b89-7fce-4864-982c-0b786e764b5f
---
We’ve all heard the phrase “content is king.” Frankly, that statement is just as true today as it was when it was first coined. Your competition isn’t getting any easier, and they’re going to do everything within their power to garner as much attention to themselves as possible. If you’re not careful, you might just lose a few customers.

The one way to differentiate yourself from your competitors is to have a good content [marketing strategy]( https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/blog/how-to-use-google-local-search-to-market-your-business) in place for your business. Nowadays that means far more than just a few blog posts on your company website. The best content marketing plans involve a range of content types and a variety of channels to push them through.  

## Developing your content marketing strategy 

The benefits of a great content marketing strategy are numerous. It can drive a steady flow of traffic to your business web site, convert new leads, generate revenue, and position you as a leader in your marketplace.  It’s a win-win for everyone, but only when it’s implemented the right way.

Let’s take a look at how you can start planning out a content marketing strategy for your business. 

### 1)    Define your goal 

Why are you creating a content marketing strategy? What are your objectives? Understanding your goals before you implement your content marketing plans will make it that much easier to come up with an effective strategy. 

### 2)    Know you audience 

Creating customer profiles (sometimes referred to as personas) that clearly defines the habits and needs of your target audience an is a crucial aspect of your content marketing strategy. After all, you need to know who you’re creating content for. Knowing and understanding your audience will allow you to produce content that’s more valuable and relevant to those you’re attempting to reach. 

### 3)    Audit your content 

Blogs are typically the go-to form of content that many businesses implement when they first launch their content marketing strategy. However, there are plenty of other content types you can produce for your audience. For instance, you can start a YouTube channel, record a podcast, or create an eBook. 

Take a look at the content you’re currently offering your customers and use analytics to figure out what’s working and what isn’t. Perhaps it’s time you branched out to a new form of content. Think about what you and your team are good at creating – videos (YouTube), photos (Instagram), short, clever messages (Twitter). Leverage your skills.

### 4)    Find a reputable content management system (CMS)

Creating content is just one part of the equation. You’ll also need to manage it too. A good content management system will allow for managing all your content creation, publication and analytics.

[Wordpress]( https://wordpress.org/) is one of the most popular content management systems currently available. Although, Wordpress isn’t the only CMS out there, so do your research and find a system that meets the needs of your content marketing strategy. 

### 5)    Come up with content ideas 

You’ve finally reached a point where you can start coming up with actual content. If you have no clue what to produce pick your top three competitors and analyze the type of content they’re creating for their audiences. 

Of course, we’re not telling you to plagiarize.  You can use competitors’ content to get inspiration about topics you might want to address to your audience form your own unique viewpoint. Adding your own personal flair (and improving upon what their content is lacking) will differentiate you from your competitors. 

You can also take a trip over to [BuzzSumo]( https://buzzsumo.com/) where you’ll find a massive pool of viral content.  Being able to identify the most popular content on the web gives you a unique insight into what audiences like and dislike.

### 6)    Use an editorial calendar 

Even if you have a mountain of content ready to unleash upon your audience, you’ll still want to be methodical in your approach. An editorial calendar will help to keep you on track with a consistent posting schedule. Tools such as [Asana]( https://asana.com/) can be used as an editorial calendar to keep your content marketing strategy on track.

## Creating an effective strategy for your business 

An effective content marketing strategy will grow with time, dedication, organization and creativity. Start slow and plan out your strategy the right way from the very beginning. Over time you can incorporate online tools such as Wordpress, Buzzsumo, and Asana to help with content creation, management, and distribution. 

Fine tuning your marketing strategy will take work. Sometimes, hiring a professional inhouse marketer or an agency is the way to go. But, if you need quick, working capital to help you get started finding that team, Turn to [One Park Financial]( https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/)! We can connect you with a large pool of funders who specialize in helping small business owners flourish and grow. [Applying]( https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/pre-qualification) will only take a few minutes of your time and you’ll have the funds you need to keep your business on the move.