---
title: 'The Truth About Small Business Bad Credit Loans'
meta_title: 'The Truth About Small Business Bad Credit Loans'
meta_description: |
  How do you do that if you can’t obtain a small business loan? Thankfully there are
  options for small business owners with shaky credit histories.
  
canonical: 'https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/blog/bad-credit-loans-for-small-businesses'
image: /assets/img/406755-8-the-truth-about-small-business-bad-credit-loans-1556287163.jpg
es_url: articulos/prestamos-para-pequenos-negocios-con-mal-credito
en_url: blog/bad-credit-loans-for-small-businesses
id: 888454da-b659-40fd-bfa4-ef49142238ed
---
Bad credit scores can happen to good people. Healthcare bills, sudden emergencies, youthful
exuberance or just a really bad run of luck can create financial problems. Most of us deal with the
damage and move forward, a little wiser and warier. Sadly, banks tend to assume that if you had a
money problem once, you’ll always be a bad financial risk. And they don’t want to lend money to
someone who may not repay it.

But as a small business owner, you need capital to fund your business. [You may need to expand](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/blog/grow-no-grow-three-factors-entrepreneurs-consider)
inventory, equipment or business space, upgrade technology, or reach more customers through
marketing. You might need a cash influx to meet current obligations while you’re waiting for vendors or
customers to pay you.

Bottom-line: you need to invest in your business, to be successful it needs to grow. How do you do that
if you can’t obtain a small business loan? Thankfully there are options for small business owners with
shaky credit histories.

## Credit Scores and Small Business Loans

Business loan risk is primarily calculated by a credit score – other factors come into play, but a credit
score is often the first thing that banks check. Typically, they look at a FICO score – a specific type of
credit score that determines personal (consumer) credit worthiness. Personal FICO scores range from
300 to 850. With FICO, 800 and up is an excellent score, mid-to-upper 700s is very good, low 600s is
problematic and anything below 500 indicates a serious credit risk.

You may also have a business credit score if you have a merchant bank account and a business credit
card. Business credit scores run from 0-100, with 75 considered excellent. It’s worth checking, but
chances are as a small business owner, your personal score will be reviewed when you want to secure a
loan. So, start off by getting your credit reports, and finding out how your score (or scores) rank.

## Bad Credit Small Business Loans

If your credit score is low, you have options but you need to be realistic – you’re going to pay more in
fees and interest rates than you would otherwise. You could hold off for a year or two and work hard to
improve your credit score before you actually apply for a loan. If you don’t immediately need funding,
this is a good option to consider. Or you might be able to borrow cash to obtain a secured loan from
your credit union, which will raise your score if you pay back the loan on time. You can also look into
getting a secured business credit card. And you should certainly pay all of your bills on time, as this is
key to establishing a good credit score.

If you need funding soon, then you’ll want to look for sources that focus on your ability to pay now
rather than your credit score. In general, applying for loans if you don’t meet a lenders credit score
requirements is a waste of time at best, and may actually end up lowering your credit score at worst.
Instead look for funding sources that specify they will work with small business owners with bad credit.

## Alternative Lending Sources for Small Businesses

Alternative lenders typically conduct business online, and many act as the middleman for institutional or
private investors. Those with lower credit scores can look for alternative funding offers based on
business revenues, rather than credit scores. For example:

**A merchant cash advance** is not a loan – it’s an advance on expected revenues. If your business has
consistent revenues of $5000+ a month, [you may qualify to receive a cash advance](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/pre-qualification) on those revenues,
which you pay back with a percentage of your sales on a daily/weekly basis. You will also pay interest
and fees, so best case scenario is that you have a plan on how to turn the advance into a sustainable
new revenue stream.

**Invoice factoring** provides an advance on the money due to you from unpaid customer invoices.
With this type of funding, call invoice factoring, the financial history of your customers is more
important than your own credit score. You are charged a percentage of the advance amount, based on
the repayment term and whether you opt to sell the invoice to the funding company or collect the
invoice and repay the funder directly. Be aware that this is not a solution for dealing with deadbeat
clients – a credit collection firm is the way to address that problem. You’d use invoice factoring to close
the gap between billing for your work and actually getting paid – typically 30-90 days.

Alternative lenders also offer short-term loans, equipment financing loans and other options.

## Finding Bad Credit Funding
You can Google for “Bad Credit Business Funding” and slowly shift through the many options. An easier
way would be to work with a company that connects small business owners to funders.

As an example, for pre-approval by One Park Financial you need to meet the minimum requirements - in
business for a minimum of 3 months, earn at least $5,000 in gross monthly revenue, and have a
minimum credit score of 450. Pre-approved small business owners can talk with a funding expert about
their business needs to determine what funding types best meet your needs. [One Park Financial](https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/how-it-works) works
with a network of funding sources, and will help guide you through the funding process. Visit
oneparkfinancial.com or call 855.218.8819 for more information.