---
title: 'One Park Financial Moves to New Location in the Heart of Coconut Grove'
meta_title: 'OPF Moves to a new location | Press Release'
meta_description: 'One Park Financial, a leader in providing capital to small and mid-sized businesses, has announced they will be moving their office to a larger facility in the historic Mayfair building in Coconut Grove.'
id: c02de834-1678-4e56-b3bb-7e9c49d491d6
es_url: medios/one-park-financial-se-muda-una-nueva-ubicacion-en-el-corazon-de-coconut-grove
---
One Park Financial, a leader in providing capital to small and mid-sized businesses, has announced they will be moving their office to a larger facility in the historic Mayfair building in Coconut Grove.  For many years, One Park Financial has been offering businesses a hassle-free and extremely efficient process of securing business capital without the headache associated with traditional bank financing. The goal is and always has been to help entrepreneurs win and get the financing they need. This move comes at a perfect time as the company continues to expand. The move is effective December 19<sup>th</sup>, 2016.

The move was necessitated by the significant growth that the company has been seeing in the last few years. In the past year alone the company has grown 300% and doubled its employee base. “I’ve been a long time resident of the Grove and I’m excited to move our team to such a great area. We’ve grown so much in the past year that it was time for a move. A new chapter for One Park Financial is beginning and with such a motivated team behind us, I have no doubts it will be a successful one,” says CEO &amp; Co-Founder John Lie-Nielsen.

The new 7500 square foot office sits on the 3<sup>rd</sup> floor of the beautiful Mayfair building overlooking Coconut Grove. The workplace will have 3 main offices, 2 conference rooms and 50 workstations that compliment a unique floorplan designed to promote worker productivity in a collaborative environment. One Park Financial’s new neighbors include Advansis Media, Blonde Tulip Bistro, Constec Realty, Delivery Dude and Crispin Porter + Bogusky. Employees will also be walking distance from great spots such as Greenstreet Café, Lokal, The Spillover and Panther Coffee and only a short walk away from beautiful parks directly on Biscayne Bay.

“We couldn’t be happier with our new location in Coconut Grove.  We think the unique design and premium location will help us attract the best talent in Miami Dade.  As we continue to grow exponentially, this is critical,” says President and Co-Founder Ben McCrery.

One Park Financial will now be located at 3390 Mary Street, Suite 305, Coconut Grove, FL 33133. For more information, you can visit <a href="https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/">https://www.oneparkfinancial.com</a> or call **855.218.8819**.

**Media Contact**
Email: Email: prteam@oneparkfinancial.com 
Follow Us!<br>
Twitter: @1parkfinancial <br>
Facebook: <a href="http://www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial">www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial</a>

<strong><em>ABOUT ONE PARK FINANCIAL </em></strong>

One Park Financial LLC, established in 2010, is a leading provider for Business Financing and Factoring Loans. Founded by entrepreneurs, One Park Financial 
understands the challenges associated with small business loans and their need for working capital and constantly strives to make the process easy for their clients while providing the best customer service.

One Park Financial has provided capital to thousands of small and mid-sized businesses in the United States. Using the most effective technology, One Park Financial is able to provide business loans, credit lines and cash advances in record times using a simple approval process. This allows the businesses to get the capital they need fast and keep their business strong and successful.

One Park Financial provides working capital for such things as: Equipment Purchasing, Procuring Additional Inventory, Additional Hires, Advertising, Debt Consolidation, Seasonal Inventory, Service Enhancements, Expansions, Adding New Business Tools, Purchasing Trucks, Medical Equipment, Computer Systems, Software, Online Marketing, Purchasing of Specialty Machinery, Additional Supplies, and Factoring among many other things.