---
title: 'One Park Financial Announces $30 Million Credit Facility for Expanded Funding Opportunities'
meta_title: 'One Park Fiancial Expands Funding Options | Press Release'
meta_description: 'One Park Financial, a leading capital provider to small and mid-sized businesses, announced today that it closed a $30 million financing facility from a New York-based alternative investment firm.'
id: 14c65574-db27-4fa4-9d3b-5ded0d40667d
---
One Park Financial, a leading capital provider to small and mid-sized businesses, announced today that it closed a $30 million financing facility from a New York-based alternative investment firm. The funding will be used to further expand One Park Financial's technology-enabled platform to offer a wide variety of flexible financing and funding options to business owners across the country. It is the largest credit facility for One Park Financial to date and reflects the successful expansion of the company's efforts.

For years One Park Financial has offered a hassle-free and efficient process of securing business capital without the obstacles associated with traditional bank financing. One Park Financial has the advantage of offering a variety of strategic capital options optimized for the merchant. The South Florida company strives to build long-lasting relationships with each merchant it works with by providing a personal touch and access to the best rates and terms.

"Our technology-enabled algorithms help us underwrite in real-time which gives us an advantage over banks," says John Lie-Nielsen, CEO of One Park Financial. "We make underwriting decisions in minutes whereas banks may take days or even weeks to decide. Our goal is to help small businesses secure capital, quickly and efficiently."

Added Ben McCrery, President of One Park, "our use of technology also allows us to look beyond traditional underwriting methods to determine the credit worthiness of a potential borrower."

<strong><em>ABOUT ONE PARK FINANCIAL </em></strong>

One Park Financial LLC, established in 2010, is a leading provider for Business Financing and Factoring Loans. Founded by entrepreneurs, One Park Financial understands the challenges associated with small business loans and their need for working capital and constantly strives to make the process easy for their clients while providing the best customer service.

One Park Financial has provided capital to thousands of small and mid-sized businesses in the United States. Using the most effective technology, One Park Financial is able to provide business loans, credit lines and cash advances in record times using a simple approval process. This allows the businesses to get the capital they need fast and keep their business strong and successful.

One Park Financial provides working capital for such things as: Equipment Purchasing, Procuring Additional Inventory, Additional Hires, Advertising, Debt Consolidation, Seasonal Inventory, Service Enhancements, Expansions, Adding New Business Tools, Purchasing Trucks, Medical Equipment, Computer Systems, Software, Online Marketing, Purchasing of Specialty Machinery, Additional Supplies, and Factoring among many other things.

**Media Contact:** 
<br/>
Email: prteam@oneparkfinancial.com 
<br/>
<a href="https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/">https://www.oneparkfinancial.com</a>
<br/>
**855.218.8819**
<br/>
Twitter: <a href="https://twitter.com/1parkfinancial">@1parkfinancial</a> 
<br/>
Facebook: <a href="https://www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial">www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial</a>