---
title: 'One Park Financial Opens Second Location'
meta_title: 'OPF Opens it''s second location | Press Release'
meta_description: 'One Park Financial has been offering businesses a hassle-free and extremely efficient process of securing business capital without the headache associated with traditional bank financing.'
id: 027a38d3-aba2-4b8f-8376-7947d0810547
---
<strong>MIAMI, FL – July 11<sup>th</sup>, 2017 – </strong>One Park Financial, a leader in providing capital to small and mid-sized businesses, has announced the opening of their second location in Coconut Grove.  One Park Financial has been offering businesses a hassle-free and extremely efficient process of securing business capital without the headache associated with traditional bank financing. As the Company continues to aggressively expand, the new location comes at an opportune time.

“After moving our offices from Doral to Coconut Grove last December, we knew this was going to be a great location to open our second office as well. We’ve been expanding at a rapid rate and the extra space allows us to continue to take the company to the next level” says CEO &amp; Co-Founder John M. Lie-Nielsen.

The second location, which houses One Park Financial and it’s sister company One Park Funding, officially opened its doors on July 10<sup>th</sup>, 2017. The new office sits on the 2<sup>rd</sup> floor of the Continental Plaza building with a great view of Coconut Grove. The workplace features an open floor design with room for continued expansion. Grovies (employees) will not only be walking distance from delicious eateries and peaceful parks, but they are right down the street from the original One Park Financial office.

“This is an exciting time for us as we continue to grow the company. Opening the second location allows us to keep hiring top talent and growing our One Park team.” says President and Co-Founder Ben McCrery.

One Park Financial 2<sup>nd</sup> location will be located at 3250 Mary Street, Suite 202, Coconut Grove, FL 33133. For more information, you can visit <a href="https://www.oneparkfinancial.com">https://www.oneparkfinancial.com</a> or call 855.218.8819.