---
title: 'Sun-Sentinel Names One Park Financial a Winner of the South Florida 2017 Top Workplaces Award'
meta_title: 'Sun-Sentinel Names One Park Financial a Winner of the South Florida 2017 Top Workplaces Award'
meta_description: 'One Park Financial has been awarded a 2017 Top Workplaces honor by The Sun Sentinel.'
id: 5aa689ae-e85e-467d-a771-f5db0053d12b
es_url: medios/sun-sentinel-premia-one-park-financial-ganador-del-premio-south-florida-2017-top-workplaces-award
---
One Park Financial has been awarded a 2017 <a href="http://www.topworkplaces.com/frontend.php/regional-lists">Top Workplaces</a> honor by The Sun Sentinel. The Top Workplaces lists are based solely on the results of an employee feedback survey administered by WorkplaceDynamics, LLC. Several aspects of workplace culture were measured, including Alignment, Execution, and Connection, just to name a few.

One Park Financial, a leading financial tech firm changing the way business owners receive funding, is officially one of the top places to work in South Florida. “We’re honored our team members, or Grovies, awarded us the Top Places to Work.   Receiving this award is a huge honor and we know that we cannot achieve our continued success without all of us working towards the same goals in an exciting, creative, and driven workplace.” says John M. Lie-Nielsen, CEO of One Park Financial. One Park prides itself on their welcoming and team oriented culture which is fueled by their Core Values. Each employee is expected to live by the four values: Results, Client’s Success, Taking Risks and Fun. These values allow each employee to constantly strive for success while working in a healthy environment.

“The Top Workplaces award is not a popularity contest. And oftentimes, people assume it’s all about fancy perks and benefits.” says Doug Claffey, CEO of WorkplaceDynamics. “But to be a Top Workplace, organizations must meet our strict standards for organizational health. And who better to ask about work life than the people who live the culture every day—the employees. Time and time again, our research has proven that what’s most important to them is a strong belief in where the organization is headed, how it’s going to get there, and the feeling that everyone is in it together. Claffey adds, “Without this sense of connection, an organization doesn’t have a shot at being named a Top Workplace.”

Aside from their core values, One Park Financial fuels it’s culture with monthly potlucks, volunteering opportunities with the United Way and office competitions. They aim to encourage team building and want to reward their employees for all the hard work they put into the Company. “It is great to earn this recognition for our team members who work so hard to make One Park a great place to work,” says President of One Park Financial, Ben McCrery.

<strong><em>ABOUT ONE PARK FINANCIAL </em></strong>

One Park Financial LLC, established in 2010, is a leading provider for Business Financing and Factoring Loans. Founded by entrepreneurs, One Park Financial understands the challenges associated with small business loans and their need for working capital and constantly strives to make the process easy for their clients while providing the best customer service.

One Park Financial has provided capital to thousands of small and mid-sized businesses in the United States. Using the most effective technology, One Park Financial is able to provide business loans, credit lines and cash advances in record times using a simple approval process. This allows the businesses to get the capital they need fast and keep their business strong and successful.

One Park Financial provides working capital for such things as: Equipment Purchasing, Procuring Additional Inventory, Additional Hires, Advertising, Debt Consolidation, Seasonal Inventory, Service Enhancements, Expansions, Adding New Business Tools, Purchasing Trucks, Medical Equipment, Computer Systems, Software, Online Marketing, Purchasing of Specialty Machinery, Additional Supplies, and Factoring among many other things.

**Media Contact:** 
<br/>
Email: prteam@oneparkfinancial.com 
<br/>
<a href="https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/">https://www.oneparkfinancial.com</a>
<br/>
**855.218.8819**
<br/>
Twitter: <a href="https://twitter.com/1parkfinancial">@1parkfinancial</a> 
<br/>
Facebook: <a href="https://www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial">www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial</a>