---
title: 'One Park Financial Makes Top 100 Best Companies List'
meta_title: 'One Park Financial Top 100 Companies | Press Release'
meta_description: 'One Park Financial was recently named one of Florida’s Best Companies To Work For. The annual Best Companies list is featured in the August issue of Florida Trend magazine.'
id: 9ca0bb69-0647-4a19-92b7-42814fdd6eaf
es_url: medios/one-park-financial-hace-la-lista-de-las-mejores-100-companias
---
One Park Financial was recently named one of Florida’s <em>Best Companies To Work For.</em> The annual Best Companies list is featured in the August issue of <em>Florida Trend</em> magazine. One-hundred companies are ranked in small, medium and large employer categories.

To participate, companies or government entities had to employ at least 15 workers in Florida and have been in operation at least one year. Companies that chose to participate underwent an evaluation of their workplace policies, practices, philosophy, systems and demographics. The process also included a survey to measure employee satisfaction. The combined scores determined the top companies and the final ranking.

“We’re so excited and honored to be named a Best Company to Work For. To know that our Grovies are the reason we received this makes it even better because without a great team we wouldn’t be as successful as we are.” says CEO John M Lie-Nielsen.

This is the second award One Park Financial receives this year for its outstanding culture and workplace. Earlier this year in April they were awarded Top Workplace by Sun-Sentinel. One Park prides itself on their welcoming and team oriented culture which is fueled by their Core Values. Each employee is expected to live by the four values: Results, Client’s Success, Taking Risks and Fun. Grovies can also enjoy a culture filled with monthly potlucks, volunteering opportunities with the United Way and office competitions. One Park Financial encourages team building and wants to reward their employees for all the hard work they put into the Company.

“What’s clear from our list is that amenities like free lunch or a game room at the workplace are not the things that make a great workplace. Those amenities are just part of the way companies reflect their cultures — it’s the culture of the company and the company’s ability to hire people who understand and embody the culture that create a great workplace,” says Executive Editor Mark Howard.

<strong><em>ABOUT ONE PARK FINANCIAL </em></strong>

One Park Financial LLC, established in 2010, is a leading provider for Business Financing and Factoring Loans. Founded by entrepreneurs, One Park Financial understands the challenges associated with small business loans and their need for working capital and constantly strives to make the process easy for their clients while providing the best customer service.

One Park Financial has provided capital to thousands of small and mid-sized businesses in the United States. Using the most effective technology, One Park Financial is able to provide business loans, credit lines and cash advances in record times using a simple approval process. This allows the businesses to get the capital they need fast and keep their business strong and successful.

One Park Financial provides working capital for such things as: Equipment Purchasing, Procuring Additional Inventory, Additional Hires, Advertising, Debt Consolidation, Seasonal Inventory, Service Enhancements, Expansions, Adding New Business Tools, Purchasing Trucks, Medical Equipment, Computer Systems, Software, Online Marketing, Purchasing of Specialty Machinery, Additional Supplies, and Factoring among many other things.

**Media Contact:** 
<br/>
Email: prteam@oneparkfinancial.com 
<br/>
<a href="https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/">https://www.oneparkfinancial.com</a>
<br/>
**855.218.8819**
<br/>
Twitter: <a href="https://twitter.com/1parkfinancial">@1parkfinancial</a> 
<br/>
Facebook: <a href="https://www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial">www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial</a>