---
title: 'One Park Financial Named Best Entrepreneurial Companies in America by Entrepreneur Magazine''s 2017 Entrepreneur360 List'
id: a38bfa84-8028-46d6-9efe-c42670b2c0b6
---
<strong>One Park Financial </strong>was recently recognized as one of the “Best Entrepreneurial Companies in America” by <em>Entrepreneur </em>magazine’s Entrepreneur360TM List, a premier study delivering the most comprehensive analysis of private companies in America. Based on this study forged by <em>Entrepreneur</em>, One Park Financial is recognized as a well-rounded company that has mastered a balance of impact, innovation, growth and leadership.

“It’s such an honor to have Entrepreneur Magazine recognize One Park Financial and include us in their 360List for 2017. We’ve worked hard to grow this company over the years and it’s great to see that growth recognized.” Says CEO John M. Lie-Nielsen

“Our annual evaluation is a 360-degree analysis of top privately-held companies representing and serving a variety of industries,” explains Lisa Murray, Chief Insights Officer of Entrepreneur Media, Inc. “These businesses are real-world case studies for any entrepreneur who seeks to master the four pillars that can greatly impact the longevity and growth of their businesses. With the Entrepreneur 360, success is measured by achieving balance throughout the entire organization, predicated by revenue.”

One Park Financial, a leader in providing capital to small and mid-sized businesses, has been offering businesses a hassle-free and extremely efficient process of securing business capital without the headache associated with traditional bank financing. The goal is and always has been to help entrepreneurs win and get the financing they need. Besides helping their clients, One Park Financial prides itself in being a welcoming and team-oriented company with a fun culture. Grovies (employees) live by the four Core Values: Results, Client’s Success, Taking Risks and Fun. These values allow each employee to constantly strive for success.

Honorees were identified based on the results from a comprehensive study of independently-owned companies, using a proprietary algorithm and other advanced analytics. The algorithm was built on a balanced scorecard designed to measure four metrics reflecting major pillars of entrepreneurship—innovation, growth, leadership and impact. For additional details on the E360 List and the companies recognized, visit: <a href="http://entrepreneur.com/360">entrepreneur.com/360</a>