---
title: 'THE SUN SENTINEL NAMES ONE PARK FINANCIAL  A WINNER OF THE SOUTH FLORIDA 2018 TOP WORKPLACES AWARD FOR THE SECOND YEAR IN A ROW'
meta_title: 'THE SUN SENTINEL NAMES ONE PARK FINANCIAL  A WINNER OF THE SOUTH FLORIDA 2018 TOP WORKPLACES AWARD FOR THE SECOND YEAR IN A ROW'
meta_description: 'One Park Financial has been awarded a 2018 Top Workplaces honor by The Sun Sentinel for the second year in a row.'
id: 00258a66-6bc0-4a4d-8835-9d602ae5b884
---
<article class="content">
    <p><strong>Miami, FL - April 19th, 2018</strong> – One Park Financial has been awarded a 2018 Top Workplaces honor by The Sun Sentinel for the second year in a row. The Top Workplaces lists are based solely on the results of an employee feedback survey which look at multiple areas in the company culture.</p>

<p>This is the second year One Park Financial, a leading financial tech firm changing the way business owners receive funding, has been awarded this exciting award. “To be named not once, but two times in a row a Top Workplace by our Grovies is such an honor to us. We wouldn’t be as successful as we are without the countless hours our team puts into this company.” says John M. Lie-Nielsen, CEO of One Park Financial.</p>

<p>To be a Top Workplace, organizations must have strong organizational health and a team that believes in where the company is headed. One Park Financial prides itself on their engaging culture that provides Grovies with potlucks, happy hours, office competitions and team sports to name a few. All these perks help encourage team building and allow Grovies to destress from their daily work schedules.</p>

<p>“Winning last year was such an honor and to win for a second year in a row is an even bigger honor. These awards let us know that our Grovies love our culture as much as we do” says President of One Park Financial, Ben McCrery.</p>

<p>One Park Financial is located at 3390 Mary Street, Suite 305, Coconut Grove, FL 33133. For more information, you can visit <a href="https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/">OneParkFinancial.com</a> or call <strong>855.218.8813</strong>.</p>

<strong>Media Contact</strong>
 
  
Email: prteam@oneparkfinancial.com 
<br/>
<strong>855.218.8819</strong>
<br/>
<p>Follow Us! Instagram: <a href="https://www.instagram.com/1parkfinancial/">@1parkfinancial</a> // Twitter: <a href="https://twitter.com/1parkfinancial">@1parkfinancial</a> // Facebook: <a href="https://www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial">Facebook.com/OneParkFinancial</a></p>


 <strong>About One Park Financial</strong>
<br>
<p>Since 2010, One Park Financial LLC has been a leading provider of Business Financing and Factoring Loans. We provide business loans, credit lines and cash advances to small and mid-size businesses, providing capital to healthy but under-served businesses without the time, documentation and availability issues associated with an SBA or conventional bank loan. The founders of One Park Financial have over 50 years of combined experience in Financial Services and are entrepreneurs like many of One Park's borrowers. Understanding the challenges associated with small business loans and the need to easily access working capital - we designed a business loan alternative that addresses many of the shortcomings associated with a traditional bank loan. Our service offers the industry's best alternative to a small business loan. We've reviewed the available options in the marketplace and created the best Business Financing Programs available by offering the simplest application process, the broadest range of merchant acceptability and the highest advance and loan volumes available. We understand the needs of small businesses to access available cash to keep their business strong and successful. Unlike a bank loan, that requires a lengthy approval process, our services are simple and fast. We are constantly striving to provide businesses with best-in-class service as we support their business needs.</p>

<strong>About WorkplaceDynamics, LLC</strong>
<br>
<p>Headquartered in Exton, PA, WorkplaceDynamics specializes in employee feedback surveys and workplace improvement. This year alone, more than two million employees in over 6,000 organizations will participate in the Top Workplaces™ campaign—a program it conducts in partnership with more than 40 prestigious media partners across the United States. Workplace Dynamics also provides consulting services to improve employee engagement and organizational health. WorkplaceDynamics is a founding B Corporation member, a coalition of organizations that are leading a global movement to redefine success in business by offering a positive vision of a better way to do business.</p>
</article>