---
title: 'Best and Brightest Companies in the Nation For 2017'
meta_title: 'Best and Brightest Companies in the Nation For 2017'
meta_description: "One Park Financial has been named one of the Best and Brightest Companies to Work For in the Nation by The National Association for Business Resources. \_The 2017 winning companies were assessed by an independent research firm which reviewed several key measures to find the best of the best in the Nation."
id: 839cb59a-99d4-4cf7-8564-e60182beaa26
---
One Park Financial has been named one of the Best and Brightest Companies to Work For in the Nation by The National Association for Business Resources.  The 2017 winning companies were assessed by an independent research firm which reviewed several key measures to find the best of the best in the Nation.

“This has been such a great year for One Park Financial and winning this award was such a special way to end the year for us and our team. We couldn’t win awards, such as this one, without the support of our amazing employees who constantly strive to make One Park the best it can be.” Says CEO John M. Lie-Nielsen.

The award honored 437 winning organizations out of 2,000 nominations, among the 437 winners, 101 companies were named Best and Brightest in the Nation. One Park’s welcoming and team-oriented culture which is fueled by their Core Values, played a key role in making this esteemed list. Each employee is expected to live by the four values: Results, Client’s Success, Taking Risks and Fun. These values allow each employee to constantly strive for success while working in a healthy environment. Aside from their core values, One Park Financial fuels it’s culture with monthly potlucks, volunteering opportunities with the United Way and office competitions. They aim to encourage team building and want to reward their employees for all the hard work they put into the Company.

“National companies realize that their employees are key to business success. The companies that were selected demonstrated innovative human resource practices. They intentionally keep employee needs at the forefront of their policies,” said Jennifer Kluge, President and CEO, National Association for Business Resources. “We are very impressed by the commitment that they have demonstrated to their employees.”

The companies that have been selected to be recognized nationally as a Best and Brightest Company to Work For<sup>®</sup> will be featured in the February 8<sup>th</sup> online edition of <em>Corp! </em>Magazine. The winning companies will also receive additional recognition as a national winner at a Best and Brightest Companies to Work For<sup>®</sup> awards symposium and gala at a location of their choosing in several U.S. cities.

<strong><em>ABOUT ONE PARK FINANCIAL </em></strong>

One Park Financial LLC, established in 2010, is a leading provider for Business Financing and Factoring Loans. Founded by entrepreneurs, One Park Financial understands the challenges associated with small business loans and their need for working capital and constantly strives to make the process easy for their clients while providing the best customer service.

One Park Financial has provided capital to thousands of small and mid-sized businesses in the United States. Using the most effective technology, One Park Financial is able to provide business loans, credit lines and cash advances in record times using a simple approval process. This allows the businesses to get the capital they need fast and keep their business strong and successful.

One Park Financial provides working capital for such things as: Equipment Purchasing, Procuring Additional Inventory, Additional Hires, Advertising, Debt Consolidation, Seasonal Inventory, Service Enhancements, Expansions, Adding New Business Tools, Purchasing Trucks, Medical Equipment, Computer Systems, Software, Online Marketing, Purchasing of Specialty Machinery, Additional Supplies, and Factoring among many other things.

**Media Contact:** 
<br/>
Email: prteam@oneparkfinancial.com 
<br/>
<a href="https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/">https://www.oneparkfinancial.com</a>
<br/>
**855.218.8819**
<br/>
Twitter: <a href="https://twitter.com/1parkfinancial">@1parkfinancial</a> 
<br/>
Facebook: <a href="https://www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial">www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial</a>