---
title: 'One Park Financial Certified as a Great Place To Work for 2018'
meta_title: 'One Park Financial Certified as a Great Place To Work for 2018'
meta_description: 'One Park Financial, a leading financial services firm that connects small and mid-size businesses with funding sources.'
id: 120100bf-d811-4eb2-8275-ec9587b3f5b5
---
**September 17, 2018 – Miami, FL** - One Park Financial, a leading financial services firm that connects small and mid-size businesses with funding sources, has been certified as a great workplace by the independent analysts at a Great Place to Work, a global people analytics and consulting firm.

Companies that are certified as a Great Place to Work have had their cultures assessed and benchmarked against those of the world’s most successful companies. 

One Park Financial earned this designation thanks to its employees awarding the business high scores in the areas of culture, trust and responsibility. Employees also ranked the business very highly in the areas of rewards, communication and pride. 

“According to our study, 95-percent of One Park Financial employees say it is a great workplace,” says Sarah Lewis-Kulin, vice president and senior editor at a Great Place to Work.

This is the sixth award One Park Financial has received for its outstanding culture and workplace. Previous awards include 101 Best and Brightest Companies To Work For in the Nation, Entrepreneur 360, Sun Sentinel Top Workplaces and Florida Trend Best Companies to Work For. 

“One Park Financial prides itself on our welcoming and team-oriented culture,” says John Lie-Nielse, CEO. “Our business culture is fueled by our four core values: Results, Client’s Success, Taking Risks and Fun.”

“Sometimes people ask us about that “fun” value, and we explain that helping small and medium-sized business people to find the funding they need to build their business is inspiring and really enjoyable. We know we’re making a real difference in the communities we serve,” explained Lie-Nielsen.

For more information on One Park Financial, based in Coral Gables, Florida, please visit:

<a href="https://www.oneparkfinancial.com/">https://www.oneparkfinancial.com</a> or call <strong>855.218.8819</strong>.</p>

**Media Contact**

prteam@oneparkfinancial.com 
**855.218.8819**
Twitter: <a href="https://twitter.com/1parkfinancial">@1parkfinancial</a> 
</br>Facebook: <a href="https://www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial">www.facebook.com/oneparkfinancial</a>

**About One Park Financial**

One Park Financial LLC, established in 2010, is a leading provider for Business Financing and Factoring Loans. Founded by entrepreneurs, One Park Financial understands the challenges associated with small business loans and their need for working capital and constantly strives to make the process easy for their clients while providing the best customer service. 

One Park Financial has provided capital to thousands of small and mid-sized businesses in the United States. Using the most effective technology, One Park Financial is able to provide business loans, credit lines and cash advances in record times using a simple approval process. This allows the businesses to get the capital they need fast and keep their business strong and successful. 

One Park Financial provides working capital for such things as: equipment purchasing, procuring additional inventory, additional hires, advertising, debt consolidation, seasonal inventory, service enhancements, expansions, adding new business tools, purchasing trucks, medical equipment, computer systems, software, online marketing, purchasing of specialty machinery, additional supplies, and factoring among many other things.

**About Great Place to Work®**

Great Place to Work® is the global authority on high-trust, high-performance workplace cultures. Through proprietary assessment tools, advisory services, and certification programs, including Best Workplaces lists and workplace reviews, Great Place to Work® provides the benchmarks, framework, and expertise needed to create, sustain, and recognize outstanding workplace cultures. In the United States, Great Place to Work® produces the annual Fortune "100 Best Companies to Work For®" list and a series of Great Place to Work® Best Workplaces lists including lists for Millennials, Women, Diversity, Small and Medium Companies and over a half dozen different industry lists.